Let's make some branches!
What do I mean by that?
Well, in a previous video,
we discussed root
directories and
how other subdirectories branch
off of the root directory.
Let's think again about
the file directory
system as a tree.
The subdirectories are
the branches of the tree.
They're all connected
from the same root
but can grow to make
a complex tree.
In this video, we'll create
directories and files and
learn how to modify them.
When it comes to
working with data in
security, organization is key.
If we know where
information is located,
it makes it easier to detect
issues and keep
information safe.
In a previous video,
we've already discussed
navigating between directories,
but let's take a moment to
examine directories
more closely.
It's possible you're
familiar with the concept
of folders for
organizing information.
In Linux, we have directories.
Directories help organize
files and subdirectories.
For example, within a
directory for reports,
an analyst may need to
create two subdirectories:
one for drafts and one
for final reports.
Now that we know why
we need directories,
let's take a look at
some essential
Linux commands for
managing directories and files.
First, let's take note of
commands for creating and
removing directories.
The mkdir command
creates a new directory.
In contrast, rmdir removes
or deletes a directory.
A helpful feature
of this command is
its built-in warning
that lets you
know a directory is not empty.
This saves you from
accidentally deleting files.
Next, you'll use
other commands for creating
and removing files.
The touch command
creates a new file,
and then the rm command
removes or deletes a file.
And last, we have our
commands for copying
and moving files or directories.
The mv command moves a file
or directory to new location,
and cp copies a file or
directory into a new location.
Now, we're ready to try
out these commands.
First, let's use
the pwd command,
and then let's display the
names of the files and
directories in the analyst
directory with the ls command.
Imagine that we no longer need
the oldreports directory that
appears among the file contents.
Let's take a look at
how to remove it.
We input the rmdir command
and follow it with
the name of the directory we
want to remove: oldreports.
We can use the ls
command to confirm that
oldreports has been deleted
and no longer appears
among the contents.
Now, let's make another change.
We want a new directory
for drafts of reports.
We need to use the command: mkdir
and specify a name for
this directory: drafts.
If we input ls again,
we'll notice the new
directory drafts
included among the contents
of the analyst directory.
Let's change into
this new directory
by entering: cd drafts.
If we run ls,
it doesn't return any output,
indicating that this
directory is currently empty.
But next, we'll add
some files to it.
Let's say we want to
draft new reports on
recently installed
email and OS patches.
To create these files,
we input: touch email_patches.txt
and then: touch OS_patches.txt.
Running ls indicates that
these files are now in
the drafts directory.
What if we realize that we
only need a new report on
OS patches and we want
to delete the email
patches report?
To do this, we input the rm
command and specify the file
to delete as: email_patches.txt.
Running ls confirms
that it's been deleted.
Now, let's focus on our commands
for moving and copying.
We realized that we have
a file called email
policy in the reports folder
that is currently
in draft format.
We want to move it into the
newly created drafts folder.
To do this, we need to change
into the directory that
currently has that file.
Running ls in that directory
indicates that it contains
several files, including
email_policy.txt.
Then to move that file,
we'll enter the mv command
followed by two arguments.
The first argument
after mv identifies
the file to be moved.
The second argument
indicates where to move it.
If we change directories into
drafts and then
display its contents,
we'll notice that the
email policy file
has been moved to
this directory.
We'll change back into reports.
Displaying the file
contents confirms that
email_policy is no longer there.
Okay, one more thing.
vulnerabilities.txt is
a file that we want to keep
in the reports directory.
But since it affects
an upcoming project,
we also want to copy it into
the project's directory.
Since we're already in the
directory that has this file,
we'll use the cp command to
copy it into the
projects directory.
Notice that the first argument
indicates which file to copy,
and the second argument provides
the path to the directory
that it will be copied into.
When we press Enter,
this copies the
vulnerabilities file into
the projects
directory while also
leaving the original
within reports.
Isn't it cool what we can
do with these commands?
Now, let's focus on
one more concept related
to modifying files.
In addition to using commands,
you can also use applications
to help you edit files.
As a security analyst,
file editors are
often necessary for
your daily tasks, like
writing or editing reports.
A popular file editor is nano.
It's good for beginners.
You can access this tool
through the nano command.
Let's get familiar
with nano together.
We'll add a title to
our new draft report:
OS_patches.txt.
First, we change into
the directory
containing that file,
then we input nano
followed by the name
of the file we want
to edit: OS_patches.txt.
This brings up the nano file
editor with that file open.
For now, we'll just enter
the title OS Patches by
typing this into the editor.
We need to save this before
returning to the command
line, and to do so,
we press Ctrl+O
and then enter to save it
with the current file name.
Then to exit, we
press Ctrl+X.
Great work!
We've covered a lot
of topics here—from
creating and removing
directories and files
to copying or moving them,
and just now,
we've added editing files.
You're well on your way to
learning Linux commands!